Docs 6711 write troubleshooting content pa (#37)
mulesoft/docs-service-mesh: modules/ROOT/pages/troubleshoot-installation-issues.adoc

= Troubleshooting Installation Issues
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]
:keywords: service mesh, microservices, installation issues, troubleshooting

When you begin installing Anypoint Service Mesh, you might encounter issues caused by incorrect credentials, insufficient space on pods, and so on. 

> This section provides possible causes for your installation issues and describes how to troubleshoot these errors:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These texts provide possible causes for your installation issues and describe how to troubleshoot these errors:
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

* <<credentials-no-permissions,Credentials Do Not Have the Necessary Permissions or Entitlements>>

> * <<invalid-credentials,Invalid credentials provided>>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* <<invalid-credentials,Invalid Credentials Provided>>
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> * <<insufficient-pod-allocation,Insufficient pod allocation>>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* <<insufficient-pod-allocation,Insufficient Pod Allocation>>
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> * <<service-mesh-not-found, Service Mesh not found>>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* <<service-mesh-not-found, Service Mesh Not Found>>
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> * <<failed-webhook-calling,Installation failed due to WebHook calling error>>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* <<failed-webhook-calling,Installation Failed Due to WebHook Calling Error>>
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> * <<installation-failed-unkown-reason, Installation failed due to unknown reason>>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* <<installation-failed-unkown-reason, Installation Failed Due to Unknown Reason>>
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

[[credentials-no-permissions]]
== Credentials Do Not Have the Necessary Permissions or Entitlements

> When you start the Anypoint Service Mesh installation, the installer appears to be progressing with dependency checks but an “the given credentials does not have the necessary permissions or entitlements” error is displayed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you start the Anypoint Service Mesh installation, the installer appears to be progressing with dependency checks but an `the given credentials does not have the necessary permissions or entitlements` error is displayed:
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> //need text of the screenshot here

Reviewer: MISSING

Author: Yes, waiting for info.

=== Cause

> This issue occurs because the credentials that you provided for the installation does not have the required permissions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This issue occurs when the credentials that you provide for the installation do not have the required permissions.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

=== Solution

Contact your MuleSoft Customer Success representative to obtain the required permissions.

[[invalid-credentials]]
== Invalid Credentials Provided

> When you start the Anypoint Service Mesh installation, the installer appears to be progressing with performing dependency checks but an “the given credentials are invalid” error is displayed.

Reviewer: Because we are quoting the error from the UI, I would format all of these messages using mono coding: `text`

Author: Done! Thanks!

> //Need text of the screenshot here.

Reviewer: MISSING

Author: Yes, waiting for info.

=== Causes

This error can occur due to the following reasons:

> * The Client ID and Client Secret secret credentials that you specified to the installer is incorrect. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The client ID and client secret you specified to the installer are incorrect. 
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

* You are using an incorrect control plane for the installation.

=== Solution

> To resolve this error, perform the following steps:

Reviewer: Because there are two reasons, we really need two sets of steps.

Author: Made a note, Need clarification.

. Verify that you are using the correct control plane. 
. Modify the control plane by setting the SERVICEMESH_PLATFORM_URI variable:
+
`export SERVICEMESH_PLATFORM_URI=https://eu1.anypoint.mulesoft.com`

> . If you are not using a US Control Plane, verify that you have exported the correct variable to point to the correct one. 

Reviewer: Aren't all three of these steps the same step: 
Modify the control plane setting to one that is appropriate to your installation.

Reviewer: Note that steps must be chronological; please confirm that these are, because they do not seem so to me.
They definitely are not chronological as a set of five, because there are two separate issues.

Author: Made a note, Need clarification.

. Obtain the correct organization or environment credentials.

> . Re-run the installer with the correct pair of credentials.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Rerun the installer with the correct pair of credentials.
```

Reviewer: Which pair of credentials: ID and secret? Why does the step above refer to "org" and "env"?

Author: Made a note!

[[insufficient-pod-allocation]]
== Insufficient Pod Allocation

When you start the Anypoint Service Mesh installation, the installer times out.

=== Causes

This issue occurs if the capacity of a pod or the total number of the pods created in the cluster exceeds the limit.

=== Solution

To resolve this error, perform the following steps:

. Verify the status of the pods:
+
`kubectl get pods --all-namespaces`
+

> All the pods in all namespaces are displayed with their status and additional details.

Reviewer: not nec

> . If a pod displays a “Pending” status, as illustrated in the previous screenshot, obtain additional details for the pod:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. If a pod displays a `Pending` status, obtain additional information about the pod:
```
There is no previous screenshot.

Author: Done! Thanks!

+
`kubectl describe pods <pod_name> -n service-mesh`

> //Need a text for the screenshot here.

Reviewer: MISSING

Author: Yes, need info.

+

> The result of the command shows that the scheduling of the node has failed.  

Reviewer: Only for this one example or for all such errors?

Author: This one!

> . To verify that the number of pods under the capacity section is not already filled up, run the command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Verify that node capacity is not exceeded:
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

+
`kubectl describe nodes`

> . Increase capacity of the node or amount of nodes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Increase the capacity of the node or add nodes.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> +

Reviewer: Is the Pending issue a failure or scheduling or available space?
Please review this (and all tasks that I have marked) to ensure that the task comprises strictly chronological user steps.

Author: yes, they are in order.

> *Tip:* If you are using Aamzon EKS, this value is calculated from the instance type. Therefore, if you increase the instance type, the amount of pods is increased.

Reviewer: What value? the capacity value? specify

Reviewer: How does one "increase the instance type"? Can a type be increased?

Reviewer: amount of pods > number of pods

Author: Done! Thanks!

> . Re-run the Anypoint Service Mesh installer to complete the installation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Rerun the Anypoint Service Mesh installer to complete the installation.
```

Reviewer: GLOBAL: is it logical to complete the installation by rerunning it? I think we want to say only "Restart the installer" or "Rerun the installation." You cannot "complete" something that you do over.

Author: Changed to restart the installer.

[[service-mesh-not-found]]
== Service Mesh Not Found

> When you start the Anypoint Service Mesh installation, the installer fails with the “Service Mesh not found” error.

Reviewer: DITTO syntax formatting

Author: Done! Thanks!

=== Causes

> This issue can be caused due to various reasons. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This issue can be caused by various reasons. 
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

=== Diagnose

> To identify the command that caused the error, run the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Identify the command that caused the error:
```
GLOBALLY reword command syntax example introductions so that they do not use "run the following command."

Author: Done! Thanks!

+
`$ sh -x ./service-mesh install`

=== Solution

> To resolve this error, download the latest version of the installer and check if the problem persists.

Reviewer: How does this relate to the stated Causes as "various"? Sounds like we are identifying this as an error of version.

Author: Left it as is.

[[failed-webhook-calling]]
== Installation Failed Due to Failed WebHook Calling Error

> When you start the Anypoint Service Mesh installation, the installer fails with the following error:

Reviewer: Note that this wording changes the precedent of naming the error in the intro sentence.
Make peer texts parallel.

Author: Done! Thanks!

[source,text,linenums]
----
Error: release service-mesh failed, and has been uninstalled due to atomic being set: Internal error occurred: failed calling webhook "pilot.validation.istio.io": Post https://istio-galley.service-mesh.svc:443/admitpilot?timeout=30s: no endpoints available for service "istio-galley"
FATAL: Installing 'service-mesh' Helm Chart!!!
----

=== Diagnose

> This issue can be caused due to various reasons. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This issue can be caused by various reasons. 
```

Reviewer: Reevaluate this statement.
It looks like the issue is caused either by lack of master node access to Port 443 in worker nodes or that orphan resources exist.

Author: Removed the sentence.

To diagnose the issue:

> * Case 1: Verify that the master nodes have access to port 443 in worker nodes. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Verify that the master node has access to port 443 in worker nodes. 
```
We don't tell them how to do this?

Author: Yes, no steps. Fairly easy task to perform.

> * Case 2:  Verify that no orphan resources were created from a previous installation or uninstallation:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Verify that no orphan resources remain from a previous installation or uninstallation:
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> At the Command prompt, type the following command:

Reviewer: Omit and go straight to command
```suggestion
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

+
`kubectl get clusterservicebrokers,clusterrole,psp,clusterrolebinding,mutatingwebhookconfigurations,validatingwebhookconfigurations -oname | awk '/(service-mesh|istio|catalog)/'`
+
Any existing orphan resource are displayed.

=== Solution

Perform the solution based on the appropriate case as described in the Diagnose section:

> * Case 1: Fix your network setup to allow the master node to connect to port 443. Depending on the provider, you can accomplish this task by modifying security groups. 

Reviewer: Replace all of this with:

"If the master node does not have access to Port 443 of the worker nodes, provide access, typically by modifying security groups."

Author: Done! Thanks!

> * Case 2: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If you find orphan resources, delete them and then reinstall Service Mesh. Depending on the resources, run one of the following commands:
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

. Delete all orphan resources before attempting to reinstall. 

> . Depending on the resources, you might have to run the following commands:

Reviewer: omit if accepting previous edit

Author: ok! Thanks!

> .. `$ kubectl delete ns service-mesh`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `$ kubectl delete ns service-mesh`
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> .. `$ kubectl get clusterservicebrokers,clusterrole,psp,clusterrolebinding,mutatingwebhookconfigurations,validatingwebhookconfigurations -oname | awk '/(service-mesh|istio|catalog)/' | xargs kubectl delete`

Reviewer: Make this text parallel with the same text for the issue above that has two possible causes.
The formats are different.

Author: Done! Thanks!

> .. `$ kubectl get clusterservicebrokers,clusterrole,psp,clusterrolebinding,mutatingwebhookconfigurations,validatingwebhookconfigurations -oname | awk '/(service-mesh|istio|catalog)/' | xargs kubectl delete`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `$ kubectl get clusterservicebrokers,clusterrole,psp,clusterrolebinding,mutatingwebhookconfigurations,validatingwebhookconfigurations -oname | awk '/(service-mesh|istio|catalog)/' | xargs kubectl delete`
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

[[installation-failed-unkown-reason]]
== Installation Failed Due to Unknown Reasons

> Your installation might fail due to an unknown error or due to a problem not documented in the possible installation error scenarios.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your installation might fail due to an unknown error.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> To determine which command failed during the installation, re-run the installer in full mode: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To determine if a command failed during the installation, rerun the installer in full mode: 
```
Is "full mode" the correct name?

Author: Done! Thanks!

> `$ sh -x ./service-mesh install: $ sh -x ./service-mesh install`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`$ sh -x ./service-mesh install: $ sh -x ./service-mesh install`
```

Author: Done! Thanks!
